## General government debt bar chart from the OECD website
<iframe src="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6gLV" width="860" height="645" style="border: 0" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" allowfullscreen="true"><a href="https://data.oecd.org/chart/6gLV" target="_blank">OECD Chart: General government debt, Total, % of GDP, Annual, 2018</a></iframe>

## General government debt grid of line charts created with Flourish
This is a grid of line charts created with Flourish to show the general government debt-to-GDP ratio of 35 different countries from 1995 to 2019. The grid is made up with 35 line charts, each representing a country with the country's abbreviation lited above each chart. The y axis of the charts measures debt-to-GDP ratio in %, and the x axis of the charts shows year. 
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-chart" data-src="visualisation/5289859"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

## General government debt heat map created with Flourish
This is a heat map created with Flourish to show the general government debt-to-GDP ratio of 35 different countries from 1995 to 2019. The heat map is a different representation of the same data as the grid of line charts. In this heat map, the x axis represents year, the y axis represents each country, the color of the blocks in the heat map presents the government debt-to-GDP ratio (lighter blue means lower ratio, darker blue means higher ratio).
The heat map format is great for such complicated data with both country and year. I picked the format because the heat map is able to include a lot of data into one concise and clear visualization. Also, the format is great to do trend discovery and country comparsion. Looking at the blocks horizontally, the change of color is showing the ratio change of that country over time (benefit od sequential color). Looking at the blocks vertically, the color difference is showing the ratio difference between countries at a given year.
Looking at the graph, these are the most important and obvious takeaways: Looking at the graph horizontally, in generally government debt-to-GDP retio are becoming higher over time, especially so for JPN, GRC, USA. Looking at the graph vertically, JPN,GRC, USA are also the countries with greatest debt-to-GDP ratio in 2018.
<div class="flourish-embed flourish-heatmap" data-src="visualisation/5290153"><script src="https://public.flourish.studio/resources/embed.js"></script></div>

## Different methods of visualizaiton
The above three visualizations (bar chart, grid of line charts, heat map) are all trying to show the government debt-to-GDP ratio. The original data comes from OECD [(Data Source)](https://data.oecd.org/gga/general-government-debt.htm). 

The bar chart comes from the OECD website, and it is showing the ratio of 35 countries in year 2018 alone. I would say that bar chart format is great for one year data, because it could easily show the comparsion and ranking between countries in a clear and concise way. I would say that the bar chart graph design does not show significant flaws. The bar charts has the title, label, source, franchise. The written contents in the graph are easy to read. The color choice is comfortable, though with all those bars lining in one chart may cause some sizzling effect for readers. The interactive design allows readers to look into a perticular bar, which is great. However, I would say that bar chart has the limitation of not being able to represent more information. It works for one year data, but it wouldn't work perfectly if we want to include multiple years data.

The grid of lines is showing the ratio of 35 countries in year 1995-2009. The format is doing well in including the huge amount of data in one visualization and makes the viusalization easy to understand. The interactive feature allows readers to look more into each data point if there are interested. Also, the format does really well when people want to look into one country and see the ratio trend over time. However, I would say the main problem with the grid format is that the grid is still a lot for readers to take because it is still not concise enough with the 35 subplots. Also, the format makes comparsion between countries at a perticular year really hard. So it would be more suitable for trend discover, not for country comparsion.

The heat map is showing the the ratio of 35 countries in year 1995-2009. It is a different presentation of the same data as the grid of lines. Just like the grid, the heat map is doing well in including a lot of data in one visualization and keeping it concise. The heat map gets rid of the subplots while keeping the same amount of information, which is a great improvment compared to the grid. The sequential blue represents the ratio in an elegant and easy to understand way. The interactive features allows readers to look into each data point by clicking at each block. The format is doing really well in helping people do trend discovery and country comparsion in this large amount of data. If looking horizontally, the color change is showing trend overtime. If looking vertically, the color comparsion is showing comparsion between countries. So I would say this is the best way to present data among the three formats.

Just like illustrated above, I picked the heat map because I want to include both country and year data (bar chart can not) amd I want to show the large amount of data in a more concise way and makes it easy to see trend and do comparsion (grid is not concise enough, and can hardly do country comparsion for a given year). So I picked the heat map with x axis represents year, y axis represents country and sequential blue to represent ratio. In this way, the heat map shows 35 countries's debt-to-GDP ratio from 1995 to 2019 in one concise graph. And if readers look at each horizontal line, it is showing the country's ratio trend overtime, and vertically it is showing country comparsion at a perticular year. The heat map is a great choice, concise and informative.

[Return to main page](/README.md)
